README.md, before:

## User Documentation for hhvm.com

This directory will contain the landing page and other documentation for [hhvm.com](http://hhvm.com). It will contain links to the [HHVM user documentation over at docs.hhvm.com](https://docs.hhvm.com/hhvm) and other relevant places. [hhvm.com](http://hhvm.com) will be hosted on GitHub pages.

### Contributing

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](./CONTRIBUTING.md) for details on how to add or modify content.

### Run the Site Locally

The requirements for running a GitHub pages site locally is described in [GitHub help](https://help.github.com/articles/setting-up-your-github-pages-site-locally-with-jekyll/#requirements). The steps below summarize these steps.

> If you have run the site before, you can start with step 1 and then move on to step 5.

1. Ensure that you are in the root directory in this local hhvm.com repo clone (i.e., the same directory where this `README.md` exists). The below RubyGems commands, etc. must be run from there.

1. Make sure you have Ruby and [RubyGems](https://rubygems.org/) installed.

   > Ruby >= 2.2 is required for the gems. On the latest versions of Mac OS X, Ruby 2.0 is the
   > default. Use `brew install ruby` (or your preferred upgrade mechanism) to install a newer
   > version of Ruby for your Mac OS X system.

1. Make sure you have [Bundler](http://bundler.io/) installed.

    ```
    # may require sudo
    gem install bundler
    ```
1. Install the project's dependencies

    ```
    bundle install
    ```

    > If you get an error when installing `nokogiri`, you may be running into the problem described
    > in [this nokogiri issue](https://github.com/sparklemotion/nokogiri/issues/1483). You can
    > either `brew uninstall xz` (and then `brew install xz` after the bundle is installed) or
    > `xcode-select --install` (although this may not work if you have already installed command
    > line tools).

1. Run Jekyll's server.

    - On first runs or for structural changes to the documentation (e.g., new sidebar menu item), do a full build.

    ```
    bundle exec jekyll serve
    ```

    - For content changes only, you can use `--incremental` for faster builds.

    ```
    bundle exec jekyll serve --incremental
    ```

    > We use `bundle exec` instead of running straight `jekyll` because `bundle exec` will always use the version of Jekyll from our `Gemfile`. Just running `jekyll` will use the system version and may not necessarily be compatible.

    - To run using an actual IP address, you can use `--host=0.0.0.0`

    ```
    bundle exec jekyll serve --host=0.0.0.0
    ```

    This will allow you to use the IP address associated with your machine in the URL. That way you could share it with other people.

    e.g., on a Mac, you can your IP address with something like `ifconfig | grep "inet " | grep -v 127.0.0.1`.

1. Either of commands in the previous step will serve up the site on your local device at http://127.0.0.1:4000/ or http://localhost:4000.

### Updating the Bundle

The site depends on Github Pages and the installed bundle is based on the `github-pages` gem.
Occasionally that gem might get updated with new or changed functionality. If that is the case,
you can run:

```
bundle update
```

to get the latest packages for the installation.

Commit message:

Make the site buildable on ubuntu focal (#70)
* Update README.md with steps I needed to take to run the site
* Run bundle update

Before I was getting this error when running `bundle exec jekyll serve`:

Dependency Error:
Yikes! It looks like you don't have jekyll-watch
or one of its dependencies installed.
In order to use Jekyll as currently configured,
you'll need to install this gem.
The full error message from Ruby is: 'cannot load such file
-- ruby_dep/warning' If you run into trouble,
you can find helpful resources at https://jekyllrb.com/help/!

README.md, after:

## User Documentation for hhvm.com

This directory will contain the landing page and other documentation for [hhvm.com](http://hhvm.com). It will contain links to the [HHVM user documentation over at docs.hhvm.com](https://docs.hhvm.com/hhvm) and other relevant places. [hhvm.com](http://hhvm.com) will be hosted on GitHub pages.

### Contributing

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](./CONTRIBUTING.md) for details on how to add or modify content.

### Run the Site Locally

The requirements for running a GitHub pages site locally is described in [GitHub help](https://help.github.com/articles/setting-up-your-github-pages-site-locally-with-jekyll/#requirements). The steps below summarize these steps.

> If you have run the site before, you can start with step 1 and then move on to step 5.

1. Ensure that you are in the root directory in this local hhvm.com repo clone (i.e., the same directory where this `README.md` exists). The below RubyGems commands, etc. must be run from there.

2. Make sure you have Ruby and [RubyGems](https://rubygems.org/) installed.

   > Ruby >= 2.2 is required for the gems. On the latest versions of Mac OS X, Ruby 2.0 is the
   > default. Use `brew install ruby` (or your preferred upgrade mechanism) to install a newer
   > version of Ruby for your Mac OS X system.

3. Make sure you have [Bundler](http://bundler.io/) installed.

    ```
    # may require sudo
    gem install bundler
    ```
4. Install the project's dependencies

    ```
    bundle install
    ```

    > If you get an error stating `mkmf.rb can't find header files for ruby at /usr/lib/ruby/include/ruby.h`
    > on Linux, you would most likely need to install the ruby-dev package. 
    > You can do so by running the following command : 
    > `$ sudo apt install ruby-dev`

    > If you get an error when installing `nokogiri` on linux (I used ubuntu 20.04 focal),
    > you need to install some dependencies before running `bundle install`, see [Installing nokogiri](https://nokogiri.org/tutorials/installing_nokogiri.html).


    > If you get an error when installing `nokogiri` on OSX, you may be running into the problem described
    > in [this nokogiri issue](https://github.com/sparklemotion/nokogiri/issues/1483). You can
    > either `brew uninstall xz` (and then `brew install xz` after the bundle is installed) or
    > `xcode-select --install` (although this may not work if you have already installed command
    > line tools).

5. Run Jekyll's server.

    - On first runs or for structural changes to the documentation (e.g., new sidebar menu item), do a full build.

    ```
    bundle exec jekyll serve
    ```

    - For content changes only, you can use `--incremental` for faster builds.

    ```
    bundle exec jekyll serve --incremental
    ```

    > We use `bundle exec` instead of running straight `jekyll` because `bundle exec` will always use the version of Jekyll from our `Gemfile`. Just running `jekyll` will use the system version and may not necessarily be compatible.

    - To run using an actual IP address, you can use `--host=0.0.0.0`

    ```
    bundle exec jekyll serve --host=0.0.0.0
    ```

    This will allow you to use the IP address associated with your machine in the URL. That way you could share it with other people.

    e.g., on a Mac, you can your IP address with something like `ifconfig | grep "inet " | grep -v 127.0.0.1`.

6. Either of commands in the previous step will serve up the site on your local device at http://127.0.0.1:4000/ or http://localhost:4000.

### Updating the Bundle

The site depends on Github Pages and the installed bundle is based on the `github-pages` gem.
Occasionally that gem might get updated with new or changed functionality. If that is the case,
you can run:

```
bundle update
```

to get the latest packages for the installation.
