---
title: HHVM 3.19
layout: post
author: michaelofarrell
category: blog
---

HHVM 3.19 is released!  This release has some exciting new experimental
features.  Packages have been published in the usual places; see the
[installation
instructions](https://docs.hhvm.com/hhvm/installation/introduction) for more
information.

<!--truncate-->

Noteworthy changes include:

* Const Array support.  This adds support for [PHP's const
  arrays](http://php.net/manual/en/migration70.new-features.php#migration70.new-features.define-array).
* Retranslate All (Experimental): This is disabled by default, and will most
  likely be enabled next release.  Retranslate all the profiled code into
  optimized translations after a reaching a threshold number of requests.
  Retranslate all replaces a piecemeal retranslation process as individual
  functions reach a profiling threshold.  Retranslate all speeds up warmup, and
  allows us to make better decisions during optimization (particularly
  inlining).  You can enable retranslate all, and set the request threshold
  using the runtime option `hhvm.jit_retranslate_all_request`.
* CLI server mode (Experimental): This allows you to create a server on your
  machine that you use to run CLI scripts.  This is beneficial as the
  translation cache can be preserved between script runs.  In other words, you
  won't have to wait for the script to JIT if you have already run it.  More
  information is available on the [docs site](https://docs.hhvm.com/hhvm/advanced-usage/CLI-server).
* hackfmt (Experimental):  This formating tool uses the full fidelity parser to
  reformat your hack code.
* Extension API is now versioned by the HHVM_VERSION_BRANCH, rather than a never
  updated API version
* Added HHI headers for Fact Parse and Watchman extensions
* Performance improvements
* Bug fixes

> We have a [known issue](https://github.com/facebook/hhvm/issues/7783), and are
in the process of building 3.19.1 packages.
