---
title: "HHVM 3.26 - Introducing HackC"
layout: post
author: fred
category: blog
---

HHVM 3.26 is released! Highlights include a new frontend, relicensing of the typechecker and related tools and libraries to MIT, and support for Ubuntu 18.04. Packages have been published in the usual places.

## HackC: The Hack Compiler

The Hack & HHVM team is excited to announce that HackC — the new front-end for HHVM — is now on by default in this release, after about a year of work by many. This includes a full-fidelity parser (FFP) and bytecode emitter for the Hack and PHP languages. The FFP already powered several tools, such as Hack's IDE integration via the Language Server Protocol, `hackfmt`, and `hhast`; in addition to the runtime, we expect the typechecker (`hh_client` and `hh_server`) to use the FFP in the future, leading to a single unified parser for typechecking, execution, IDE services, and other tools.

HackC passes all of HHVM's tests - including the PHP specification tests - and [produces semantically equivalent bytecode](https://github.com/facebook/hhvm/blob/master/hphp/hack/doc/semdiff-description.txt). That said, if you encounter problems:

* you can *temporarily* revert to the legacy frontend with the `hhvm.hack_compiler_default=false` INI setting
* please [file a GitHub issue](https://github.com/facebook/hhvm/issues/) including minimal example code to reproduce the problem; this is extremely important as **we plan to remove the legacy frontend in 3.27**

You can verify which frontend is being used by inspecting the `__COMPILER_FRONTEND__` magic constant.

## Hack Relicensing

[As previously announced](https://hhvm.com/blog/2018/04/11/relicensing-hack.html), Hack is now available under the MIT license. 3.26 is the first stable release to include Hack under these terms.

## Other Highlights

* added the `nonnull` type, allowing more thorough and consistent typing - e.g.
    `function nullthrows<T as nonnull>(?T $in): T`
* added the `dynamic` type to allow safer dynamic code, as an alternative to untyped or `mixed`
* improved handling of STDOUT with a Debug Adapter Protocol debugger attached
* `hh_parse` now can produce dot (Graphviz) representations of the AST - e.g. `hh_parse --full-fidelity-dot test.hh | dot -Tpng ast.png; open ast.png`
* legacy IDE support (`hh_client ide`) has been removed; the VSCode Language Server Protocol (`hh_client lsp`) should be used instead
* many improvements to LSP-based IDE features, such as autocomplete and function hover information
* several Hack changes that were opt-in [in HHVM 3.25](https://hhvm.com/blog/2018/03/15/hhvm-3.25.html) are no longer optional. PHP code is unaffected. These changes include:
    * namespace fallback is no longer supported for functions or constants (e.g. '`FOO`' is always equivalent to '`namespace\FOO`')
    * array unpacking will raise errors if there are potentially unmet requirements for the number of unpacked values
    * destructors are no longer support. Use `using` blocks and `Disposable`s instead.
    * arrays can no longer include references. This also means it's not possible to make references to array elements, or pass by array elements by reference.
    * untyped lambdas can not be passed as non-function types (e.g. to functions that accept `mixed`)
* opt-in: ban whitespace and comments in the 'elvis' (`?:`) operator - e.g. `$foo = bar() ? /* hello, world */ : baz();`. To ban this syntax, set `disallow_elvis_space=true` in your `.hhconfig`. We expect this to be required in 3.27.

## The dynamic Type

`dynamic` is a new type we've added to Hack's type system. The dynamic type is a special type in Hack used to help capture dynamism in our codebase in typed code, in a more manageable manner than `mixed`. With the `dynamic` type, the presence of dynamism in a function is *local to the function,* and dynamic behaviors cannot leak into code that doesn't know about it.

For example, this untyped code will not raise type errors, as the typechecker assumes any use of untyped variables (`$x`) is valid:

```
function takesInt(int $x) : int {
  //...
}

function f($x) {
  $id = $x->getInt();
  $y = takesInt($id);
}
```

With `dynamic`, the local usage is allowed, but dynamism must be removed at the function boundaries:

```
function takesInt(int $x) : int {
  //...
}

function f(dynamic $x) : void {
  // Calling a method on a dynamic type is allowed,
  //  and will result in another dynamic 
  $id = $x->getInt(); 
   // error! id is type dynamic, not compatible with int
  $y = takesInt($id); 
}
```

Finally, with `mixed`, the type must be refined before use:

```
function takesInt(int $x) : int {
  //...
}

function f(mixed $x) : void {
  $id = $x->getInt(); // error! $x is mixed, cannot call getInt()
  $y = takesInt($id);
}
```

### Details

* A value of type `dynamic` is permissive of most local operations: like untyped expressions, you can treat it like an integer and add it, or a string and concatenate it, or call any methods on it.
* When using a dynamic type in an operation, the typechecker will infer the *best possible type* with the information it has. For example, using a `dynamic` in an arithmetic operation like “+” or “-” will result in a num, using a `dynamic` in a string operation will result in a string, but calling a method on a `dynamic` will result in another `dynamic`:

```
function f(dynamic $x) : void {
  $y = $x + 5; // $y is a num
  $y = $x . "hello!"; // $y is a string 
  $y = $x->anyMethod(); // $y is dynamic
}
```

* In the type hierarchy, `dynamic` is a supertype of all types(including mixed, though this might change). If a function accepts or returns a `dynamic` type any value can be used without performing a cast. We may limit or change this behavior in the future based on feedback and usage.
* `dynamic` is permissive locally, so you don't have to null check it. That said, this means there are no guarantees by the typechecker that your type is actually `nonnull`. We also may change this behavior in the future.
* *Unlike* untyped expressions, `dynamic` is not a subtype of any regular type. That is, you cannot pass it to a function that expects a nondynamic type, or return it from a function that returns a nondynamic type (besides `mixed`) without casting.
* Certain dynamic behaviors, (like dynamic method calls) are allowed on dynamic types, even in strict mode. These operations result in another dynamic type.


