---
title: "HHVM 4.32 (LTS)"
layout: post
author: jjergus
category: blog
---

HHVM 4.32 is released! This release has long term support, so:

- this release will be supported for approximately 48 weeks
- the next LTS will be released in approximately 24 weeks
- HHVM 4.8 and HHVM 4.27&ndash;4.31 remain supported
- support ends for HHVM 3.30, the last HHVM release compatible with PHP

See also the new
[support lifecycle for older distributions](https://hhvm.com/blog/2019/11/19/distribution-support.html).

# Highlights

- Fixed an issue where some built-in functions, available at runtime, were not
  recognized by the typechecker (e.g. `fb_intercept2`, `fb_serialize`,
  `xhprof_enable`). See
  [header file](https://github.com/facebook/hhvm/blob/HHVM-4.32/hphp/hack/hhi/builtins_fb.hhi)
  for the full list.
- For developers: You can now use `source $BUILD/hphp/hack/dev_env.sh` to set up
  the correct environment for all OCaml tools (dune/cargo/opam/ocamlformat/...).
- The HTTP server bundled with HHVM (Proxygen) now allows the `MOVE` method.
- The type `varray_or_darray` (a helper type, only existing in the typechecker,
  for migrating from legacy arrays) now has two generic type parameters.
  - For backwards compatibility, it can still be used with a single generic type
    parameter, where `varray_or_darray<T>` is implied to mean
    `varray_or_darray<arraykey, T>`.
  - See
    [recently updated guide](https://docs.hhvm.com/hack/built-in-types/arrays#migrating-from-legacy-arrays)
    for more information about legacy array migration types.

# Breaking Changes

- All types that can be iterated with `foreach` now extend a single
  `Traversable` interface.
  - Fully qualified name is `\HH\Traversable`, but since this is an
    &ldquo;autoimported&rdquo; type, the fully qualified name should never be
    needed.
  - Previously, there were two separate interfaces, `\Traversable` and
    `\HH\Traversable`, with most (but not all!) types implementing
    `\HH\Traversable` (an example exception is `DOMNodeList` which only
    implemented `\Traversable`).
  - The `\Traversable` and `\Iterator` interfaces (inherited from PHP) have been
    removed in favor of `\HH\Traversable` and `\HH\Iterator`. Hack code that
    refers to `Traversable` and `Iterator` with no leading backslash will
    continue to work unchanged, but code that had `\Traversable` or `\Iterator`
    needs to either remove the leading backslash or add `\HH` (note that this
    changes the behavior of the affected code, making it refer to a much larger
    set of iterable types).
- Using `HH\BuiltinEnum` outside of built-in header files is once again
  disallowed by the typechecker (error 2053). This restriction had recently been
  lifted (in [HHVM 4.28](https://hhvm.com/blog/2019/10/23/hhvm-4.28.html)), but
  it is being reintroduced because we discovered some new runtime issues when
  the type is used.
- The runtime config option `hhvm.php7.int_semantics` has been removed.
