---
title: "HHVM 4.1.0"
layout: post
author: fred
category: blog
redirect_from: "/blog/2019/05/09/hhvm-4.1.0.html"
---

HHVM 4.1 is released! This release will be supported for 8 weeks; we aim to
start publishing weekly releases shortly, however this will not change the
lifecycle for HHVM 4.1.

## New Features

- added the `null` type; this allows `$foo is null` as an alternative
  to `$foo === null`, consistent with `$foo is nonnull`.
- added the `nothing` (bottom/empty) type.
- `.hh` and `.hack` files are now supported in repo-authoritiative mode. We
  recommend using `.hack` files.
- user attributes are now supported on type constants
- IDE integrations now better support `.hack` files
- added the `disable_unsafe_block` `.hhconfig` option to ban `// UNSAFE`
- `ReflectionProperty::getAttribute()` and `::getAttributes()` are now supported
- Anonymous functions with `inout` parameters are now supported in async
  functions
- shape string keys can now start with integers, as long as they are not
  entirely integers

## Breaking Changes

These changes are mostly working towards removing references from the language,
and removing support for functions that can inspect or modify the caller, such
as `compact()` or `extract()`

- `<?hh` is no longer valid by itself; replace with `<?hh // partial`;
  `hhast-migrate --explicit-partial-mode` can be used for this change.
- the `assume_php` `.hhconfig` option has been removed; it is always false.
- `global` statements (e.g. `global $foo`) are no longer supported
- the `disallow_array_cell_pass_by_ref` and `diasallow_assign_by_ref` options
  have been removed; these behaviors are now errors
- it is now both a runtime error and a type error to access superglobals by
  reference, e.g. `&$_SERVER` or `&$GLOBALS['foo']`
- by-ref use clauses for anonymous functions (e.g. `function () use (&$foo) {}`)
  are no longer supported
- `is_array()`, `is_object()` and similar functions are no longer auto-imported
  to every namespace; use `hhast-migrate --no-namespace-fallback`
- support for PHP files is disabled by default
- markup sections are no longer supported
- variable variables (`$$foo`) are no longer supported
- `get_magic_quotes_gpc()`, `get_magic_quotes_runtime()`, and
  `set_magic_quotes_runtime()` have been removed.
- The `hhvm.enable_zend_sorting` option has been removed; when the sort order
  was undefined, this option would make HHVM match PHP5's behavior, but this
  would use a slower algorithm
- the WDDX extension has been removed
- `.phpt` (PHP template) files are no longer supported in repo-authoritative
  mode.
- destructors are no longer supported or called
- a warning is now raised if too many arguments are passed to non-variadic
  functions
- an exception is thrown if functions are called with too few arguments
- invoking `forward_static_call()` now raises an error
- `define()` has been removed
- the execution (backtick) operator is no longer supported
- Variance is now enforced for `where` constraints
- `this::` is no longer used in `is` or `as` constraints at generics make it
  unsafe
- `stdClass` is now final
- `__PHP_Incomplete_Class` is now final, does not typecheck, and is no longer
  directly instantiable
- `func_get_args()`, `func_get_arg()`, and `func_num_args()` have been removed.
- `get_defined_vars()` has been removed
- `get_called_class()` has been removed
- `KeyedContainer` keys must now be `arraykey`; this affects `Map`, `ImmMap`,
  `Set`, and `ImmSet`.
- variables called `$php_errormsg` or `$http_response_header` are no longer
  special
- Calling instance methods statically or static methods as instance methods
  now raises a warning.
- `array_keys()` now only takes one argument
- undefined constants ('barewords') now always raise an error
- the `phar` extension has been removed, as HHVM does not support building
  phars and was no longer able to execute PHP phars.
- integers now wrap instead of overflowing to floats
- `Closure::bindTo` and `Closure::call` have been removed; these were already
  typechecker errors

### PHP Files

`<?php` now raises a runtime error; while PHP is no longer supported by HHVM,
it is still possible to allow the `<?php` tag by setting the
`hhvm.enable_php=true` INI setting.

We disabled it by default as executing PHP files with HHVM 4 tends to give
confusing and misleading error messages due to changes around references;
disabling support allows a much clearer error message to be provided.

### Markup Sections

The parser no longer understands markup sections; they are both typechecker
and runtime errors. Relatedly, `?>` is no longer recognized.

```
This is a leading markup section
<?php
// foo
?>
This is a markup section, but not a leading markup section
```

Shebang lines (e.g. `#!/usr/bin/env hhvm`) are still permitted as the first
line of a file.

## Future Changes

- in 4.2, `<?hh` will imply strict mode, instead of being an error
- `filter_input()` and `filter_array()` will be removed in a future release
- the IPC and extension will be removed in a future release
- the session extension and `$_SESSION` will be removed in a future release
- `declare()` will be removed in a future release
- user streams and stream filters will be removed in a future release
- static locals will be removed in HHVM 4.2; a type checker error can be raised
  by setting the `disable_static_local_variables=true` option in .hhconfig
- property types will be enforced in a future release
- The `hhvm.hard_type_hints` option will be removed; type hints will always
  be enforced (this has been the default behavior for some time).
- static closures will be removed in a future release; the
  `hhvm.hack.lang.phpism.disable_static_closures` INI setting can be used to
  disable support in 4.0
- Calling instance methods statically or static methods as instance methods will
  be an error in a future release. In 4.0, this raises a warning.
- Removed `hackificator`, `augmented_types`, `remove_soft_types`, and
  `compare_coverage.py` as they have been unmaintained for some time.
- Dynamic calls will not be allowed to take by-reference parameters; this can
  be currently be enforced with the `disallow_byref_dynamic_calls` `.hhconfig`
  option 

### Static Locals

Static local variables will no longer be supported - for example:

```
function foo(): void {
  static $foo = null;
  // ...
}
```

There are several approaches for replacing them:
- replace with `<<__Memoize>>` or `<<__MemoizeLSB>>`
- use instance properties
- use static properties; care is needed to make sure that `self::` or `static::`
  is used correctly; the behavior of static local variables dependeded on the
  caller, so this could not be inferred.

If the function is potentially recursive, you may need to copy the property
into a local, so that deeper calls do not affect the value in their callers.

### Property Type Enforcment

The `hhvm.check_prop_type_hints` INI setting can be used to enable runtime
enforcement of property types. This enables additional optimizations.

Valid values are:
- 1: raise a warning
- 2: raise a recoverable error
- 3: raises a non-recoverable error

We expect property type enforcement to be mandatory in a future version.
