---
title: "HHVM 4.8.0"
layout: post
author: fred
category: blog
---

HHVM 4.8 is released! This release has long term support, so:
- this release will be supported for approximately 48 weeks
- the next LTS will be released in approximately 24 weeks
- HHVM 3.30 and HHVM 4.3-4.7 remain supported
- HHVM 3.27 are no longer supported

# Highlights

- XHP attributes can now be marked `@lateinit`, to indicate that an attribute
  is required, but may be set via `->setAttribute()`. This is currently
  equivalent to `@required`, however if the `check_xhp_attribute` option is set
  in `.hhconfig`, an error is raised if a `@required` attribute is ommitted at
  instantiation; for example, `class :a { attribute string b @required; } <a />`
  will raise a typechecker error because of `b` not being specified, however
  `class :c { attribute string d @lateinit; } <c />` will raise a runtime error
  if `->setAttribute('d', 'someValue')` is not called before render, but will
  not raise a typechecker error. This new behavior will not be optional in a
  future release.
- The `.hhconfig` options `disable_unsafe_expr` and `disable_unsafe_block` are
  now supported, removing support for `// UNSAFE` and `/* UNSAFE_EXPR */`; we
  recommend using `hhast-migrate --add-fixmes` then using `sed` or similar to
  remove the `UNSAFE` and `UNSAFE_EXPR` comments. This behavior will not be
  optional in a future release.
- HSL v4.7.0
  [adds a `Ref<T>` class](https://github.com/hhvm/hsl/releases/tag/v4.7.0),
  to wrap values in objects.

# Breaking Changes

- The typechecker will now raise errors if it can identify that an expression
  being used in a boolean context is falsey, but not actually the boolean value
  `false`; for example, `$x = null; if ($x) { /* ... */ }`.
- The `and`, `or`, and `xor` operators have been removed from the runtime; they
  previously raised typechecker errors. Use `$a && $b`, `$a || $b`, or
 `(bool) $a !== (bool) $b` instead.
- By-reference properties are now a parse error.
- Fix some unsoundness issues when using `is` or `instanceof` with generics;
  this may lead to the typechecker raising errors in more places.
