---
title: "HHVM 4.25.0"
layout: post
author: fred
category: blog
---

HHVM 4.25 is released! This release marks the end of support for 4.19;
4.20-4.24 remain supported, as do the LTS releases 3.30 and 4.8.

# Highlights

- Corrected stack trace file names and line numbers for inlined functions;
  previously, the file name and line number from the first non-inlined frame
   would be used instead.
- It is no longer a type error for a disposable to implement a non-disposable
  interface.
- `@param` documentation is now shown in IDE signature help.

# Breaking Changes

- The `getAttributeRecursive` and `getAttributesRecursive` reflection methods
  have been removed; they were previously marked as `__Deprecated`.
- Many functions and methods have had their by-ref parameters replaced
  with `inout` parameters:
  - `natsort()`, `natcasesort()`, `sort()`, `rsort()`, `asort()`, `arsort()`,
    `ksort()`, `krsort()`, `usort()`, `uasort()`, and `uksort()`
  - `array_pop()`, `array_push()`, `array_shift()`, `array_splice()`,
    `array_unshift()`, and `shuffle()`
  - `IntlTimeZone::getOffset()`
  - `pagelet_server_task_result()`, `xbox_send_message()`, and
    `xbox_task_result()`
- `call_user_method()` and `call_user_method_array()` have been removed - they
  have been deprecated since PHP4.
- the runtime no longer recognizes the aliases `double`, `real`, `integer`, and
  `boolean`; use `float`, `int`, and `bool` instead. These aliases were
  previously typechecker errors.
- Added return types to many Async MySQL methods; this may lead to new type
  errors.

`hhast-migrate --ref-to-inout` can be used for many of the reference-to-inout
changes.

# Future Changes

- references will be completely removed from the language and runtime; we will
  be publishing details in a separate post.
