---
title: "HHVM 4.3.0"
layout: post
author: fred
category: blog
---

HHVM 4.3 is released! This release will be supported for 6 weeks, and HHVM
4.1+ remain supported.

## Improvements and New Features

- Fixed some cases where typechecker errors would be missing position data
- Fixed potential bugs when using `__LateInit` in repo-authoritative mode
- Autocomplete for `parent::` now includes instance methods, not just static
  methods
- VSDebug no longer intercepts STDERR when attaching to HHVM in server mode
- Improved typechecker error for `isset()` usage

## Breaking Changes

- Improved consistency of raising errors for traits or interfaces that define
  constructors with parameter promotion; this is not supported.
- Errors are now raised if an XHP class contains multiple child or category
  declarations; the first declaration would always be used. Muiltiple children
  and categories are still supported, but they must be in a single declaration.
- Builtin function parameters will no longer be coerced - instead, an exception
  is thrown. On prior versions, warnings can be enabled on coercion with the
  `hhvm.warn_on_coerce_builtin_params` INI setting
- Removed the `<>` operator; this can be replaced with `!=`, and is supported
  by `hhast-migrate --hhvm-4.2-to-4.3` or `hhast-migrate --ltgt-to-ne`
- Type errors are now raised if `parent::__construct()` is called with
  parameters that violate `where` constraints
- Division by zero now throws an exception; this can be controlled with the
  `hhvm.forbid_division_by_zero` ini setting.
- The typechecker is no longer aware of `ext_session`

# Other Notes

- Removed the `hhvm.jit_profile_interp_requests` INI setting as other changes
  made it unused
- Removed the `disable_optional_and_unknown_shape_fields` experimental hhconfig
  option from 3.23.
