---
title: "HHVM 4.34"
layout: post
author: jjergus
category: blog
---

HHVM 4.34 is released! This release marks the end of support for 4.28;
4.29&ndash;4.33 remain supported, as does the 4.8 LTS release.

# Highlights

- Added `hh_client --concatenate-all path/ [morepaths/ ...]`, which creates a
  single-file version of a Hack project. This respects required inclusion order
  (e.g. parent classes before child classes), and resolves syntax issues such as
  namespace declarations and potentially conflicting `use` statements. Example
  usage:
  - `hh_client --concatenate-all src/` for a library
  - `hh_client --concatenate-all src/ vendor/ bin/foo.hack` for an executable

# Breaking Changes

- It is now always a type error to use `self::abstractStaticMethod()` to call an
  abstract static method **inside a trait**. Previously, this was only a type
  error if any classes used the trait without implementing the respective
  method. The new behavior is consistent with abstract classes, where calling
  `self::abstractStaticMethod()` was already an error. Use
  `static::abstractStaticMethod()` instead (note that this may change the
  behavior in some cases, but most likely the new behavior better captures the
  original intent of the code).
- Type errors about incorrectly overridden type constants are now reported in
  the child class that overrides the constant, not in the parent class that
  declares it. This may require some `HH_FIXME`s to be moved from a parent class
  to its child classes.
