---
title: "HHVM 4.2.0"
layout: post
author: fred
category: blog
---

HHVM 4.2 is released! This release will be supported for 6 weeks, and HHVM 4.1
remains supported.

This is the first release on an accelerated schedule; we now aim to make new
releases every monday, each supported for 6 weeks. There is no planned change
to the LTS cycle.

4.1's release branch was cut in late March, so 4.2 contains approximately a
month's changes; 4.2 and future releases do not have the same branch cut system,
so 4.3 and above should be expected to contain approximately one weeks' changes.

## New Features

- Added a `statcache-clear` admin server command
- Added the `CURLPROXY_HTTPS` constant
- Added context to typechecker error output; the previous output is available
  with `--error-format=raw` for scripting/automation
- `$x is MyAbstractFinalClass` now raises a typechecker error, as it is
  impossible for any `$x` to be an instance of an uninstantiable class

## Breaking Changes

- The typechecker now requires an argument to `get_class()`
- The `settype()` function has been removed
- Static locals have been removed
- User-defined stream wrappers and filters have been removed
- Support for PHP anonymous classes have been removed from the runtime; these
  were not supported in Hack.
- int-like-strings are no longer converted to ints when used as PHP array
  keys. To help migration, this behavior can be tested on 4.1 with the
  `hhvm.enable_intish_cast=0` option.
- `<<__UNSAFE_Construct>>` has been removed.
- The runtime now requires that all keywords (e.g. `if`) to be lowercase; this
  was previously only required by the typechecker.
- Calls to undefined functions are now fatal errors.
- `filter_has_var()`, `filter_input()`, and `filter_input_array()` have been
  removed.
- Attempting to store a reference in `$GLOBALS` will result in a runtime error.
- Callback support has been removed from `Memcached::get()` and
  `Memcached::getbykey()`

## Other Changes

- Corrected reflection for `inout` parameters.
- All `array`-like kinds are now valid `Keyed{Traversable,Container}` (without
  generics).
- Improved typing of `$x['foo'] ?? $bar` where `$x['foo']` is not a valid
  field.
- Hack (and related ocaml tools) are now built using Dune instead of ocamlbuild.
- `make hack_test` now runs Hack's tests; previously it built various test
  utilities, but did not run the tests.
- The option to have ints overflow to floats has been removed.
- the `hhvm.hard_type_hints` option has been removed; type-hint violations now
  always raise runtime errors, unless they are explicit soft type hints. This
  option was primarily useful for enabling stricter enforcement of parameter
  types for PHP5 code.
- Improved `hackfmt`'s handling of empty function bodies (e.g. HHI definitions).
  This does not affect abstract or interface methods.
- If numa is supported and not explicitly disabled, threads will always use
  local memory; this was previously the default in server mode only.

## Future Changes

- `instanceof` will be removed, in favor of the `is` and `as` operators. It
  can be disabled with the `disable_instanceof=true` `.hhconfig` and
  `hhvm.hack.lang.phpism.disable_instanceof` HHVM INI settings.
