---
title: "HHVM 4.42"
layout: post
author: fred
category: blog
---

HHVM 4.42 is released! This release marks the end of support for 4.35;
HHVM 4.36&ndash;4.41 remain supported, as do the 4.8 and 4.32 LTS releases.

# Highlights

- Bugs in the typechecker's AST handling now result in error `4361`, instead of
  an exception. This error code should never be suppressed - please [file a bug
  report](https://github.com/facebook/hhvm/issues/new/choose) if you see this
  error code.
- Fix escaping of variables autocomplete snippets - e.g. `Foo::bar|` can
  now autocomplete to `Foo::bar($id)`.
- Added `HHVM_VERSION_MAJOR`, `HHVM_VERSION_MINOR`, and `HHVM_VERSION_PATCH`
  constants; these should be used instead of parsing the `HHVM_VERSION` or
  `HHVM_VERSION_ID` constants. `HHVM_VERSION_ID` is recommended for direct
  comparisons, e.g. with `>=`.
- Added `\HH\enumname<T>` type to the runtime; this is similar to
  `classname<T>`, for Hack enums.
- Fixed crash in `readdir()` and `rewinddir()` if the directory is already
  closed; `false` will be returned instead.
- Improved error message for `() ==> async {}` (returning an async block);
  it now suggests `async () ==> { }` instead (an async lambda).

# Breaking Changes

- If an interface defines a constructor, the typechecker now requires that
  classes that implement the interface are either abstract, or implement the
  constructor in accordance with the interface, matching the behavior for other
  methods.

# Future Changes

- We will stop building any binaries for MacOS High Sierra on March 23rd, as our
  provider is ending support for this operating system version. We will continue
  to build packages for Mojave (which are usable on Catalina), and expect to
  begin building packages specifically for Catalina from early February.
- `HHVM_VERSION_ID` will change from `XX.YY.ZZ` to `XX.YYY.ZZ`, to support the
  expected release of HHVM 4.100 later this year; if using standard comparison
  operators to compare two version IDs, this should not be a significant change,
  unless checking for `< 50000` or similar - replace that check with
  `HHVM_VERSION_MAJOR === 4`. If you’re converting to/from human-readable form,
  consider migrating to the new `HHVM_VERSION_MAJOR`, `HHVM_VERSION_MINOR`, and
  `HHVM_VERSION_PATCH` or existing `HHVM_VERSION` (string "x.y.z") constants.
- The special behavior of `ArrayAccess` objects is being removed.
  - this is already a typechecker error.
  - this includes `$x['foo']` for both read and write (replace with explicit
    `offsetSet` or `offsetGet` calls)
  - this also includes `isset($x['foo'])` (`$x->offsetExists('foo')`) and
    `unset($x['foo'])` (`$x->offsetUnset('foo'`).
  - the `hhvm.notice_on_array_access_use=true` INI setting can be used to raise
    notices for this behavior at runtime.
