---
title: "HHVM 4.64"
layout: post
author: jjergus
category: blog
---

HHVM 4.64 is released! This release marks the end of support for 4.57;
HHVM 4.58&ndash;4.62 remain supported (4.63 was skipped), as do the 4.32
and 4.56 LTS releases.

# Breaking Changes

- The INI flag `hhvm.hack_arr_compat_specialization` was removed and its
  behavior is now enabled by default.
  This change disables the implicit inter-operability between `varray`s and
  `darray`s. Instead, `array` (soon to be removed), `varray` and `darray` are
  now treated as types in their own right. Specifically:
  * Using a `varray` where a `darray` is expected (at parameter and return value
    typehints) throws, and vice versa. The same goes for property typehints,
    if they are checked at runtime.
  * `varray`s now maintain a “`vec`-like” layout, with integer keys from 0 to
    (size - 1). Attempting to set a string key in a `varray` throws, as does
    attempting to unset any element other than the last one.
  * Tuples and shapes are internally represented as `varray`s and `darray`s,
    respectively. As a
    result, `darray is tuple(...)` returns `false` and `darray as tuple(...)`
    throws. The same goes for `varray is shape(...)` and
    `varray as shape(...)`.
  * Comparing a `varray` and a `darray` using `==` or `===` always returns
    `false`.
  * Comparing a `darray` with a `varray`, or two `darray`s using `>`, `<`, `<=`,
    `>=`, `<>`, `<=>` results in an exception. Two `varray`s can still be
    compared.
  * If property type enforcement is turned on, property type invariance rules
    for class hierarchies will apply to `varray`, `darray` and `array`. For
    example, a child class will not be able to redeclare a property with type
    `varray<Tv>` if the parent class' property is typed `darray<Tk, Tv>`.
  * Additional related INI flags were removed, since they no longer have any
    effect:
    - `hhvm.hack_arr_compat_type_hint_notices`
    - `hhvm.hack_arr_compat_check_varray_promote`
    - `hhvm.hack_arr_compat_check_implicit_varray_append`
    - `hhvm.hack_arr_compat_dv_cmp_notices`
- Attempting to override a non-abstract constant defined in an interface when
  implementing or extending that interface is now a typechecker error. It had
  already been a runtime error.
- The function `HH\global_keys()` was removed. Other methods of enumerating all
  global variables, such as `HH\global_get('GLOBALS')` or `$GLOBALS['GLOBALS']`,
  are also expected to stop working soon.

# Future Changes

- We expect `array(...)` literals to be completely removed in the next release.
  All code will need to be migrated to `varray[...]` and `darray[...]`, or
  preferably `vec[...]` and `dict[...]` (if it can be done safely).
  - Automated migration is available in [HHAST](https://github.com/hhvm/hhast)
    v4.33.6 or newer: `hhast-migrate --php-arrays`
- Any remaining methods of enumerating all global variables, such as
  `HH\global_get('GLOBALS')` or `$GLOBALS['GLOBALS']`, are expected to stop
  working in a future release.
- We expect to remove the `yield from` syntax in a future release. In most
  cases, it can be replaced by other syntax.


### Replacing `yield from`

Here's a list of replacements to use based on the complexity of the use case:

If only the values, or only (key, value) pairs, are used, replace `yield from`
with `foreach...yield`:

```php
function only_values_old($gen) {
  yield from $gen;
}
function only_values_new($gen) {
  foreach ($gen as $v) { yield $v; }
}

function keys_values_old($gen) {
  yield from $gen;
}
function keys_values_new($gen) {
  foreach ($gen as $k => $v) { yield $k => $v; }
}
```

Use `getReturn` to evaluate the result of the `yield from` expression:

```php
function return_old($gen) {
  $x = yield from $gen;
  var_dump($x);
}
function return_new($gen) {
  foreach ($gen as $v) { yield $v; }
  $x = $gen->getReturn();
  var_dump($x);
}
```

Use `send` to pass values back into the inner generator (if callers of the
`yield from` outer generator do so). This use case is quite rare.

```php
function send_old($gen) {
  yield from $gen;
}
function send_new($gen) {
  for ($gen->next(); $gen->valid(); $gen->send($s)) {
    $s = yield $gen->key() => $gen->current();
  }
}
```

There's one behavior of `yield from` syntax that can't be captured easily by
rewrites like the above: if the same generator is aliased by a `yield from` and
elsewhere, `next()` on that generator will advance the `yield from`. Such code
will need a rewrite to make state explicit.
