---
title: "HHVM 4.51"
layout: post
author: jjergus
category: blog
---

HHVM 4.51 is released! This release marks the end of support for 4.45;
HHVM 4.46&ndash;4.50 remain supported, as do the 4.8 and 4.32 LTS releases.

# Highlights

- A new method `getEnumUnderlyingType()` was added to `ReflectionClass`. It
  returns the underlying type of the enum's values (usually `HH\int` or
  `HH\string`, but can also be the name of another enum, type alias, or
  `HH\arraykey`).
  - If the `ReflectionClass` instance doesn't represent an enum, the method
    throws.
- Improved optimization of async tail calls (`return await ...`) can
  significantly improve performance of code that uses a lot of such calls.

# Breaking Changes

- Using the array-appending operator `[]` on a `Map` object
  (`$map[] = Pair {$key, $value};`) is now a type-checker error.
  - Use `$map[$key] = $value;` instead.
  - The runtime still allows both variants, so `HH_FIXME` can be used
    temporarily, to help migrating code. Runtime support will likely be removed
    in a future release.
- The type-checker no longer supports the
  ["magic method" `__call`](https://www.php.net/manual/en/language.oop5.overloading.php#object.call),
  so calling any method that is not explicitly declared is now a type-checker
  error.
  - Runtime behavior is unchanged, so `HH_FIXME` can be used temporarily, to
    help migrating code. Runtime support will likely be removed in a future
    release.
  - In the long term, we recommend migrating any affected code to only call
    explicitly declared methods.

# Future Changes

- We expect the removed type-checker features listed above to also be removed
  from the runtime in a future release.
