---
title: "HHVM 4.54"
layout: post
author: fred
category: blog
---

HHVM 4.54 is released! This release marks the end of support for 4.48;
HHVM 4.49&ndash;4.53 remain supported, as do the 4.8 and 4.32 LTS releases.

# Highlights

- `inout` parameters on async functions now only raise a parse error, instead
  of a parse error and a NastCheck error.
- improved accuracy of line numbers for errors or backtraces within `concurrent`
  blocks
- The `ignored_fixme_codes` (errors that can not be suppresed) hack option is
  no longer respected for HHI files; this allows projects to use a stricter
  list than is compatible with builtins.
- If using CLI server mode, a warning is now logged if the CLI client does not
  recognize a command sent to the CLI server. We **strongly** recommend using
  the `hhvm.check_cli_client_commands=2` INI setting to raise an error instead:
  these warnings indicate a bug in HHVM, and can not be safely recovered from.
  If you see this warning, please file a bug report. It can also be set to `0`
  to disable the warnings. Any value other than `2` leads to undefined behavior
  in this error case.
- Increased the efficiency of `idx()` and array access on empty containers.

# Breaking Changes

- Containers are now more consistently checked for valid `arraykey`s; this
  behavior can be enabled on old releases with the
  `disallow_invalid_arraykey=true` `.hhconfig` setting.

# Future Changes

- The `hhvm.check_cli_client_commands` INI setting will default to `2` (error)
  in a future release.
