---
title: "HHVM 4.62"
layout: post
author: fred
category: blog
---

HHVM 4.62 is released! HHVM 4.57&ndash;4.61 remain supported, as do the 4.32
and 4.56 LTS releases.

# Highlights

- added `json_encode_with_error()` and `json_decode_with_error()`, which take
  a new `inout ?(int, string) $error` parameter as their second argument,
  instead of mutating global state (which would be retrievable via
  `json_last_error()`).
- fixed several resource lifetime bugs in the gd, icu, and zip extensions, which
  could lead to resources being prematurely freed when another resource held a
  reference to them.
- improved source locations for `inout` errors.

# Breaking Changes

- A parser error is now raised if Vector, ImmVector, Set, or ImmSet are
  initialized with keys, or if Map or ImmMap are initialized without keys.
  Previously, this would lead to a bytecode emitting error.
- FIXME codes now need whitelisting in the project root .hhconfig

## FIXME whitelisting

FIXME codes must now be whitelisted in the top-level project's
`.hhconfig` - adding a FIXME for a code that is not in the whitelist is in
itself an error. The relevant configuration options are:

- `allowed_fixme_codes_partial=1234,5678`: FIXME codes that are permitted in
  `.hackpartial` files.
- `allowed_fixme_codes_strict=1234,5678`: FIXME codes that are permitted in
  all other files, including `.hack` files and `.php` files starting with
  `<?hh` - including `<?hh // partial`. We still recommend moving to `.hack`
  and `.hackpartial` files, and expect support for `// partial` to be removed
  in a future release.
- `allowed_decl_fixme_codes=1234,5678`: FIXME codes that are permitted in
  declaration contexts, such as function type signatures. Any codes here must
  *also* be listed in the `_strict` or `_partial` options to be permitted in
  those files; this is to allow banning a code from strict files, while still
  permitting it in decl contexts in partial files.

For example, the HSL is configured with:

```
allowed_decl_fixme_codes=2053,4045
allowed_fixme_codes_strict=2011,2049,2050,2053,4027,4045,4106,4108,4110,4128,4135,4188,4200,4240,4248,4297,4323
```

[A script](https://gist.github.com/fredemmott/6fe221cacc1221b84264b2a476eaa2a7)
is available to generate these configuration options; this script requires
[jq](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/) version 1.6 or newer.

This change is intended to allow projects to control what kinds of unsafe
operations they are comfortable permitting, and to avoid accidentally
regressions and introducing new forms.

Empty strict/partial whitelists are likely not a practical goal for the majority
of projects at this time, however, there is significant benefit in entirely
eliminating fixmes in declaration contexts, so we recommend that all projects
attempt to have an empty `allowed_decl_fixme_codes` whitelist.
