---
title: "HHVM 4.50"
layout: post
author: fred
category: blog
---

HHVM 4.50 is released! This release marks the end of support for 4.44;
HHVM 4.45&ndash;4.49 remain supported, as do the 4.8 and 4.32 LTS releases.

Additionally, we are no longer building binary packages for MacOS High Sierra
for any version of HHVM, as High Sierra is no longer offered by our build
infrastructure provider.

# Highlights

- added the `hhvm.hack_arr_is_shape_tuple_notices` INI setting, which raises
  a notice on `$dict is shape()` and `$vec is tuple()`; these are currently
  always false, but may be true in the future, so are unsafe to depend on.
- `HH\BuiltinEnum<T>` is now covariant.
- Improve hackfmt's range formatting when suppressions outside the requested
  range affect code within the requested range.

# Breaking Changes

- magic methods (`__get`, `__set`, `__isset`, `__unset`) have been removed from
  the typechecker definitions of builtins, such as the XMLReader, Imagick,
  DateTime, and SimpleXML extensions.
- it is now a type error to use argument unpacking when invoking a default
  constructor. It was already an error to make a variadic call to functions that
  take exactly zero arguments, and as default constructors always have exactly
  zero arguments, this makes the behavior consistent. This was previously
  a runtime error.

# Future Changes

- `array()` literals will be removed; the `hhvm.hack.lang.disable_array=true`
  INI setting can be used to enable a runtime fatal when they are used, in
  addition to the preexisting `disallow_array_literal=true` `.hhconfig` option.
- The magic methods on builtins that were removed from the typechecker in this
  release will be removed from the runtime in a future release.
