---
title: "HHVM 4.72"
layout: post
author: fred
category: blog
---

HHVM 4.72 is released! This release marks the end of support for 4.65;
HHVM 4.64&ndash;4.71 remain supported, as do the 4.32 and 4.56 LTS releases.

# Highlights

- Various `varray` and `darray` runtime errors (e.g. out of bounds access) now
  have clearer error messages, and are consistent with the equivalent `vec`/
  `dict` error messages.
- If `hhvm.hack_arr_compat_notices` is enabled, a notice is now raised when
  a `varray` is indexed by a `string`.
- Typechecker errors for uninitialized properties now suggest the specific
  nullable type and property (e.g. `?int $myPropertyName`) instead of the
  placeholder `?YourTypeHere`.
- It is now possible to enable unstable features on a per-file basis for
  experimentation - see below for details.

# Breaking Changes

- `<<__Override>>` attributes were not checked on abstract classes; this bug
  has now been fixed, so type errors will now be raised if a method on an
  abstract class is marked with this attribute, but it is in fact not overriding
  a parent definition.
- it is now a typechecker error to use `class_meth()`, `fun()`, `meth_caller()`
  etc to create a reference to functions or methods with reified generics, as
  any call to such a reference is an error.
- references to abstract methods have been similarly banned.
- `class_meth(__CLASS__)` in non-final classes is now a typechecker error. This
  can be resolved by:
  - making the class final.
  - replacing with the more-explicit `static::class` or `self::class`.

# Enabling Unstable Features

Unstable features are **likely** to be completely rewritten, restricted to
builtins, or removed entirely, and any issues will generally be considered very
low priority.

Experimental features can be enabled by:
- adding `allow_unstable_features=true` to `/etc/hh.conf` or
  `/usr/local/etc/hh.conf` (location may vary depending on your platform and
  package source).
- adding `hhvm.hack.lang.allow_unstable_features=true` to your HHVM
  configuration
- adding a file-level attribute at every usage, indicating which specific
  experimental feature is being used.

For example:

```
<<file:__EnableUnstableFeatures('union_intersection_type_hints')>>

function use_unstable_feature((int | bool) $x): int {
  if ($x is bool) {
    return $x ? 1 : 0;
  } else {
    return $x as int;
  }
}
```

Experimental features should not be used in production code.
