---
title: "HHVM 4.47"
layout: post
author: jjergus
category: blog
---

HHVM 4.47 is released! This release marks the end of support for 4.41;
HHVM 4.42&ndash;4.46 remain supported, as do the 4.8 and 4.32 LTS releases.

# Highlights

- We’re looking to help people migrate towards strictness! Part of that is a
  series of `.hhconfig` flags:
    - `ignored_fixme_codes`: a comma delimited list of error codes (4110, 2071,
      etc.) that allow you to gradually forbid HH_FIXMEs in your codebase. Hack
      will ignore any HH_FIXME or HH_IGNORE_ERROR with the specified codes. An
      empty list is the default, meaning only the hardcoded unfixmeable codes (see
      [default_ignored_fixme_codes in errors.ml](https://github.com/facebook/hhvm/blob/master/hphp/hack/src/errors/errors.ml#L702))
      are forbidden.
    - `disallowed_decl_fixmes`: a comma delimited list of error codes (4110,
      2071, etc.) that allow you to gradually forbid HH_FIXMEs in your codebase.
      Hack will ignore any HH_FIXME or HH_IGNORE_ERROR outside of the body of a
      function with the specified codes. Declaration-level FIXMEs tend to
      obscure more errors than intended, so tend to be more important to fix up.
    * `error_codes_treated_strictly`: a comma delimited list of error codes
      (4110, 2071, etc.) that allow you to gradually forbid HH_FIXMEs in your
      codebase. Partial mode files accept a number of errors that are not
      allowed in strict mode. If an error is in this list, we will report it as
      an error&mdash;even in a partial mode file. Not every error and position
      can be reported clearly though. Certain errors (like missing types) can
      cascade into other code, yielding other error codes or being hidden by
      partial mode. Still, this list can provide a means to incrementally fix
      things in partial mode files without strictifying the whole file. The
      default is an empty list, which uses the normal partial/strict modes.

# Breaking Changes

- Trying to declare a function, constant, or enum type with the same name as a
  preceeding `use function`, `use const`, or `use type` declaration is now a
  parser error.
  - It had already been a runtime error.
  - This makes the behavior consistent with classes, where it was already a
    parser error.
- `namespace` is now a reserved keyword, trying to use it as an identifier will
  result in a parser error.
  - It had already been a runtime error.
- `HHVM_VERSION_ID` is now `XXYYYZZ` instead of `XXYYZZ`.
  - This preserves compatibility for comparisons using `<`/`>`, but breaks any
    code trying to parse `HHVM_VERSION_ID` into individual parts.
  - Use the new constants `HHVM_VERSION_MAJOR`, `HHVM_VERSION_MINOR`,
    `HHVM_VERSION_PATCH` (added in HHVM 4.42) instead of parsing the value.

# Future Changes

- Support for XHP `children` declarations will be removed.
  - The `XHPChildValidation` trait from
    [xhp-lib v3.1](https://github.com/hhvm/xhp-lib/releases/tag/v3.1.1)
    should be used instead, see
    [HHVM 4.46 release notes](https://hhvm.com/blog/2020/02/24/hhvm-4.46.html#future-changes)
    for more information and migration instructions.
  - New `.hhconfig` option `disable_xhp_children_declarations=true` can be used
    to get the future behavior now.
