---
title: "HHVM 4.121"
layout: post
author: fred
category: blog
---

HHVM 4.121 is released! This release marks the end of support for 4.115; HHVM 4.116&ndash;4.120 remain supported, as do the 4.80 and 4.102 LTS releases.

# Highlights

- When converting bools/resources/objects to ints, only raise a conversion
  notice *or* error, not both.
- Added a new `hhvm.notice_on_coerce_for_str_concat2` option to catch a
  coercion case that is not handled by `hhvm.notice_on_coerce_for_str_concat`.
  For both of these, a value of 0 means silent coercion, 1 raises a notice,
  and 2 is an error.

# Breaking Changes

- Errors are now raised by default when math operations have to implicitly
  coerce the type of an operand. This includes increment and decrement operators.
  In prior versions, this behavior can be controlled with the
  `hhvm.notice_on_coerce_for_math` and `hhvm.notice_on_coerce_for_inc_dec` INI
  settings.
- A notice is now raised when comparison operators coerce types. This can be
  controlled with the `hhvm.notice_on_coerce_for_cmp` and
  `hhvm.notice_on_coerce_for_eq` INI settings.
- Bitwise operations now raise an error when coercing types. On previous releases,
  this can be controlled with the `hhvm.notice_on_coerce_for_bit_op` INI setting.

See [4.120's announcement](https://hhvm.com/blog/2021/07/27/hhvm-4.120.html)
for `Legacy_FIXME` functions to aid in type coercion migration.

# Future Changes

- The various coercion options will be removed over time, and implicit coercions
  will always be errors.
