---
title: "HHVM 4.105"
layout: post
author: fred
category: blog
---

HHVM 4.105 is released! This release marks the end of support for 4.99;
HHVM 4.100&ndash;4.104 remain supported, as does the 4.80 LTS release.

# Highlights

- Rust components are now built using Rust 1.51.0
- Fixed [several bugs](https://github.com/facebook/hhvm/commit/6762285701de9940deb5d1d5d8bead23027508ce) in the
  new `enum class` feature
- Improved runtime error message when too many arguments are passed to a
  closure: the function is now reported as `Closure$func#num()` instead of
  `__invoke()`
- method overrides can now specify a more restricitve context than the original
  method definition
- Functions in Hack collection methods now have defined coeffects.
- `hh_server`'s compression model can be changed to ZSTD by setting the
  `sharedmem_compression` `.hhconfig` option to a ZSTD compression level; 3
  is ZSTD's default. This is essentially CPU vs memory tradeoff - large
  projects may wish to experiment with this option.
- interface type constants can now be overriden by implementing classes.

# Breaking Changes

- Removed the undocumented `<<__ConstFun>>` attribute.

# Future Changes

- A future release will be deprecating and later removing `json_last_error()`,
 `json_last_error_msg()`, and `preg_last_error()`
- `_with_error` suffixed variants of all json/preg functions have been added and
  should be used instead for error checking. e.g. `json_encode()` has
  `json_encode_with_error()` and `preg_match()` has `preg_match_with_error()`


